we're Planning zoing Commission to
order first up uh on the agenda is roll
call and seating of alternates and I see
an CR is
present Scott pan is present Steve
Nelson's present and I am present are
there any other regular members that
snuck in at the last minute that I don't
have I believe Leanne is joining us
yep okay yep Leanne
uh also present are Susan England and
anarie dagel I don't see Kevin arneson
uh here
tonight so so we've got a full
commission no uh no alternates will be
seated
next item on the agenda is uh additions
or changes to the
agenda and I would like to
add a uh new item I'll call it
5A which would be uh after the executive
session if there was any action that the
commission wanted to take it that would
have to be after we got back into the
regular meeting in so that is not
currently on the agenda so uh I would
add uh
potential action from executive
session anybody else have any any
comments or changes additions to the
agenda at this point
hearing none go on to item four which is
public comment I
see uh Katherine Hutchinson has joined
us do you have any comments for it at
this point Miss
Hutchinson and you are muted if you
wanted to say anything
I'll take that as a no J you also have
someone on the phone but that's yeah I
think Leanne is the 5475 number
you yes okay yep I thought so we we see
you on there
twice
oh okay very good no public comments at
this point um the next item up would be
to is the executive
session J do you know excuse me Jad do
you normally vote to go into executive
session I was going to make a motion to
vote to go into executive session yes
sir okay before we do that are we clear
on the logistics to get in there so uh
yeah so what we'll do because we do have
a member of the public with us um and
and you will need to
designate um who is coming into
executive
session um what I will do is create a
breakout room and invite everyone all
the Commissioners and any other members
any other um participants that are
invited into executive session into that
breakout room I will pause the recording
um and so you know people who have not
been invited in will just be
basically essentially left behind in the
zoom room um until the executive session
is over and the commission returns and
for who might come in while the
executive session is going on did you
say something about posting something or
making it clear somehow that that yes
yeah okay so I will
um let see yeah I'll I'll I'll put a
message in the waiting obviously there
is nobody in the waiting but if if there
is anyone shows up in the waiting room I
will let them know
okay and you're ready to create that uh
Breakout room at this point John yeah
after we we make our motion yeah do your
vote first I'll hit the pause recording
and then I'll open up the Break Up
breakout room okay so at this point I'd
like to make a motion that we enter
executive session this would include all
commission members including the
alats zoning agent
Hy attorney alen Certo Town planner John
gzowski Town Administrator Eric Anderson
and you seconded okay thank you any any
discussion anybody else that should be
in there or somebody that I included
should not be in
there hearing none I'll take a vote on
the move to enter executive session and
and yeah y did you uh did you vote I for
executive session yes
okay Scott hi Steve hi
leam hi and I vote I as well motion
passes
500 record
okay and uh with
that I
will make a motion to
begin
um I forget the term that you Ed there
alen uh would say aemotion to um
authorize enforcement action that's it
yep that's what I was missing I make a
motion that we authorize enforcement
action as of
tonight second thank you Leanne any
discussion on that
motion well if I could um well I can't
suggest an amendment but just to be
clear what what what parcel we're
talking about and
U okay yep um so well I will amend the
motion then and
I
will make a motion
to
begin legal action legal enforcement
action of the gravel pit at 517 Route
6 as of
tonight I'll second down CH if you thank
you Scott any other
discussion and my assumption is that if
we don't hear something back by the next
meeting then we can take
subsequent more significant
action any other
discussion call for a vote
an i Scott hi Steve
sorry I lean hi and I vote I as well
that motion passes 500
Z thank you everybody on the commission
thank you Allen I think
uh that's uh that's all we needed you to
be here for for tonight okay well thank
you very much thank you Ellen yep take
care folks okay you Mr chairman
yes uh just a note um Katherine Hutchin
said at the beginning of the meeting
before you went into executive session
um you had asked for public comment uh
she was unable to unmute herself at that
time um and I I popped out of executive
session for a moment just to make sure
that she was in the room and understood
what was going on and she indicated that
that she would like an opportunity just
to maybe ask a question um or or be
recognized because she had Tech
technology issues at the
beginning this is Katherine Hutchinson
and I have no questions um I was very
frustrated because I couldn't unmute I
finally did and he was gracious enough
to tune me in so I explained what
happened but I have no questions thank
you okay yep thank you Miss Hinson thank
you next item on the agenda is new
business which there is
none uh
next item after that is old business
first up is the venue for Planning and
Zoning commission meetings moving
forward and so uh I went out and uh
solicited input from all the attendees
at the meeting didn't hear back from
everybody but there were a
significant I guess there were there
were several folks that would attend
virtual only
and then uh you know there
were
fewer number that like the idea of
inperson and there were a bunch of
people that said while they would
probably attend virtually they were okay
with doing a hybrid we talked about the
uh Acoustics in the community center I
know that uh an cre reached out to the
school and we could use the library
there
um I uh spoke with Eric today who uh who
thinks that probably in by July we would
be able
to uh be in the new Senior Center
there's a a smaller room in there that I
think maybe the Acoustics would be
better and so rather than go through
the what might seem to be
minor learning curve of using Handover
Elementary School for a hybrid
location I thought that I would uh hold
off for now until we had access to the
community building uh the senior buil
center and
uh look at uh maybe doing a hybrid at
that point you know the
uh there were a couple of things that
were
I know the meetings run very well from
the Board of Education in the library um
I don't know that that I should
expect
um that we would get the same kind of
set up there and uh by the time I figure
out how to do everything to make that
work will be close to uh July anyhow so
at that point based on uh the input I I
got from the commission members my
thought is at this point we'll continue
to do virtual only until such time as we
can uh maybe do some hybrid meetings in
the
Community Center Senior Community Center
so that's that's my update on the venue
for Planning and Zoning commission
meetings any other comments or questions
on that one Mr chair yep so would just
and I think I me may have mentioned this
at a previous meeting but just as a
reminder the state statute that change
relative to Freedom of Information and
public meetings um indicated that uh
commissions are you know free to choose
to have meetings in person hybrid or or
virtual only um but if you choose to
have a in-person meeting and one of your
Commissioners one or more of your
Commissioners requests of virtual
accommodation you must accommodate
so um so if someone is if someone is
fairly adamant or or or uh certain that
they want to participate
virtually you know you're going to have
at least a hybrid meeting if not all
virtual understand thanks
John next up under old business was uh
an update of the plan of conservation
and development and uh John I was going
to turn over to you if you had anything
for us tonight on that yeah I I have
just a short um overview of a couple of
of things and I don't want to belabor
this because I know you spent a lot of
time in the in the in the executive
session but I wanted to present a couple
of um just Concepts and maybe begin to
think about
um sort of thematic structure of the
plan kind of going forward talking about
Vision um so I'm I'm going to buzz
through just a quick a couple of quick
things um
and show you this um so can you see this
it's a PowerPoint slide um yep got it
okay so I I just wanted to um give you
guys some some concepts of of how uh a
couple of different um a couple of
different approaches to thinking about
community and thinking about looking at
a community in its totality um so AARP
um rolled out about a year and a half
ago I think um what they call their
Community livability index and they look
at um seven or eight different modes of
of community um and essentially rate
different communities essentially by ZIP
code um on those on those modes so I
pulled up uh Handover um
06232 uh and where it fits and so
basically um the overall livability
index for Andover is 50 um average
Nation wide is um 47 they tried to
calibrate it so it was basically a z to
100 uh in terms of a livability index um
so it's Andover is just just slightly
into the top um half of
communities you know the basic
demographics we we've talked about this
um the interesting thing is um some of
the things on the right here and a lot
of this you know these are statistical
indicators um 13% of the population with
a disability life expectancy 85 which I
believe is slightly higher than National
um basically all households have a
vehicle fewer than 1% without uh median
household income just under
95,000 um small percentage below poverty
and their upward Mobility score is 87 um
which I think is a combination of of a
lot of those factors disability Vehicles
life expectancy and and income um going
through a couple joh before you go on I
was surprised
that the median income
was less than 100,000 you know but the
uh I guess I thought
that that the median income was maybe
15,000 with when we were talking about
that so that that
came it it's and and we can we can dig
into where the sources of the data are
but I assume this is probably American
Community survey data yeah okay um yeah
so I guess the other thing that
surprises me is the a small number of
people below the the poverty level and I
don't
know where I I heard or read something
about uh you know the the number of
clients that our food bank has or uh you
know and it was this significant number
of of families that rely on our food
pantry and uh so I guess only three
below poverty I guess you can be above
poverty and still need little little
help is what that's saying significantly
yeah I poverty level is very low um it's
it's well below I think the the income
that you would need to live in and over
with with uh real estate prices taxes
vehicle costs um and that sort of thing
um yeah it's it's you know poverty is
just an income thing it doesn't it
doesn't include you know consideration
of expenses and cost of living
um so goes through a couple of these
factors that and again so they they they
look at livability in a number of ways
so housing is one um which in which and
again these were all uh rankings for and
over um a little bit lower than the
national average I think because um
there are fewer multif family units
housing costs are higher um than than
they are um sort of nationally on
average
um the
cost actually cost burden um has uh
decreased um it used to be about 25% now
it's about
17% um but there's not as much
subsidized housing um so there are
certain measures that are getting better
there's a little bit more multi family
housing costs are coming had come down
between 2015 2023 but it's still uh much
more expensive and and you know fewer
fewer multif family and subsidized
housing options
uh neighborhood proximity and security
um again about average maybe a little
bit below not many not much access to
grocery stores um and farming Park
obviously in town
um that they indicated access to
libraries the no libraries which I think
obviously is is both statistically and
factually incorrect so I think there's
an American Community survey statistical
error there
um diversity of destinations is um below
national average and and decreasing
activity density and again it's that
that's jobs per people jobs and people
per square mile obviously we have a low
density of people and jobs um very low
crime rate um although although
increasing slightly I'm sorry uh no
decreasing slightly so it's and and and
in the in the best um TTI and very um uh
and an increasing vacancy rate but again
still not that much vacancy um so the
the again slightly below average on that
um
transportation again about the same 44
45 um not that much local
Transit
um there's uh let me see where are we
about average in trips per household per
day um very little congestion obviously
um household Transportation costs are
are
relatively um inine are actually a
little bit more expensive than than the
the median and the national
um
view uh about average speed limits about
average crash rates um so it's it's you
know an overall average rank in there
environment um ranks quite well 61
um out of 100 uh good drinking water um
Quality and and improveed there are very
few people exposed to um drinking water
qual violations same with uh air quality
good air quality um no no in in their
statistical analysis no near roadway
pollution um I think because of you know
there's not in States there's not a lot
of um you know massive truck traffic and
then um very little industrial uh
pollution so the environment is in in
generally good
shape Health uh in terms of prevention
access quality
um fewer people smoke um fewer people uh
are actually obcd is creeping up a
little bit but still lower than the
national averages um there's decent
maybe average access to exercise
opportunities um there is
um not not a um it's a it's a good
healthc care professional access
um I'm sorry sort of uh average present
preventable hospit hospitalization rates
and um decreasing patient satisfaction
in terms of care
um and again this is you know so that
places it sort of in the middle um
community and so Civic and social
engagement um decent uh rates of um
Broadband uh in terms of availability
and speed uh good opportun and
increasing opportunity for civic opport
uh Civic involvement they're increasing
number of
organizations decent um voter rate
little higher than average
um low relatively social involvement
index I'm not sure uh exactly what that
is we can we can dig it into a little
bit and um decent number of of cultural
arts and entertainment institutions per
per 10,000 um upper
tale and then last sort of access of
analysis is
opportunities um which is inclusion and
possibilities and this is the highest
rank um that that uh and overscored um
a basically an average but slightly
decreasing um or slightly increasing
income inequality number um again better
than um average but still declining jobs
per worker uh very very good high school
graduation rates 97% um in 2023 so that
that's um much higher than than the
median and a decreasing age diversity so
again you know as we saw with the
demographics discussion we we had a
couple of weeks ago that Andover is
becoming sort of a little bit more
uniformally um aging than than it had
been but um it's uh the the
possibilities and opportunity um in
Andover are rated relatively high in
terms of
liability um so what does this all mean
not that much necessarily it's it's just
one way of sort of looking at um the
population and the resources in Andover
what I thought was more interesting
generally was
those categories thinking about thinking
about how we plan for endover looking at
you know not only traditional housing or
Transportation but also things like
opportunity and
engagement and Community
inclusiveness um so that's that's what
one quick um analysis the other thing I
wanted to share is that the state of
Connecticut is up in the process of
updating their Planet conservation and
development and they're at a draft stage
right now they're looking to have a
Five-Year Plan adopted in early 2025 for
the next five years the state plan has
been um very vanilla for the last 15 to
20 years um and they've basically kept
the same structure um and the same six
growth management principles
um intact unchanged really UN unaltered
in any way for for over 20 years in the
state um but this current plan that
they're drafting which is formally
called the conservation and development
policies
plan they're looking at this very
differently um and I thought it was an
interesting interesting way to to look
at um planning um so they they look at
this as a as you can see on the on the
right as a pyramid guiding principles
sort of the Bedrock guiding principles
at the bottom um going into Visions
which are sort of priorities for the
next five years um to be considered
somewhat holistically and then
implementation measures which are sort
of the action steps and then the
policies that that will guide sort of
State growth um wanted to look at those
visually when we talk about sort of the
Baseline guiding principles um the state
is establishing these four big
principles sustainable Equitable and
just vibrant and resilient so instead of
again breaking things down in terms of
Transportation housing Economic
Development conservation open space you
know infrastructure they have these
guiding principles um that that you know
will sort of found form the foundation
of all the plans to come as they get
farther up the pyramid um and so I
thought that was that was a very
interesting and and it's a significant
departure from what the state has done
before um and interesting categories
resilient vibrant Equitable and just and
sustainable um and then going up the
pyramid they have the visions and these
is five basically statements that they
want to see happen in Connecticut as a
whole over the next five years and those
are a thriving economy housing for
current and future residents stewardship
of resources healthy people in places
and connected and inclusive
communities and so what they they they
showed here in this sort of multicolored
uh ven diagram is the intersection of
some of these things so when you look at
you know a thriving economy and
stewardship of resources issues of
bronfield Redevelopment slips into there
or you know connected and inclusive
communities and housing for uh future
current future residents issues of
broadband um or housing Crosser
um
so you know again this is this I I this
is sort of a presentation without
conclusion um but I wanted to let you
know a little bit about what sort of the
state is thinking and how they are sort
of restructuring their planning process
which again the town of andover's plan
of conservation and development will be
adopted after the next after this this
plan of conservation and development at
the state level is is adopted because
that's will happen basically in January
and we're looking you know probably
sometime in you know mid mid
2025 um that our plan in andova will
have to somehow reflect or respond to
what the state is doing um and so I I
just thought it was very interesting and
something that we should we should think
about andul ultimately talk about is how
do we want to think about visioning or
establish sort of a framework for what
the plan is going to look like and how
it is going to be structured um and so I
wanted to give you those two examples of
of sort of different ways of thinking
about about communities
holistically
um and I'll I'll stop there but just to
say what I would like to do perhaps at
the next meeting is begin to talk
about uh the vision and and to sort of
hear from all of you um I think in a
kind of an open-ended way kind of talk
about the the the the good and the bad
of Andover and what we want to you know
see happen over the next 10 years and
and then begin to kind of feel out what
we want the structure of of uh our
vision and our plan to be so that's my
pitch for the evening
sounds good thanks John any any
questions for John at that
point yeah um Chad I have a question um
John on the the livability index you
mentioned that the national average was
47 and we're out of 50 which is great
but I'm
wondering would there be a benchmark for
similar siiz towns within
Connecticut that may have you know
significantly higher scores than us we
might be able to learn from them in
terms of improving our
scores I I think that's an a really
interesting uh idea I like that um the
way that this is structured I don't know
if they do cohorts so what I can do is
check those other places individually
and so if we had some thoughts about who
we'd like to sort of Benchmark ourselves
against I'm happy to put together a
little side by side so what what do we
think who's who who who does and over
measure themselves
again good question I I don't know other
similar towns like you know I used to
live in Ashford I don't know if what
their score is but they're a similar
size Town sure so towns of towns
of to 5,000 something like that that's
what I would think would be interesting
you know there's no point in US
comparing ourselves to you know major
cities or even towns
like you know 100,000 people or even
50,000 yeah so yeah I mean a community
like
uhuh and then even some more distance I
mean a town like Chester has about 4,000
people some place like you know sort of
Western rings of fair of of uh of
Hartford on the other side like a
Burlington kind of thing or MH um
sure I mean the one thing I would I
would suggest the commission
does is try to get his
Visionary with the
PCD as you can I mean really think about
what is the community you want to live
in you know describe it close your eyes
and describe how you would go about your
life in your ideal community and all the
assets and attributes you would want in
that and then start building a plan
collectively for how you get there
that's really what you know the name of
the game um is understand what you want
and then understand you know try to come
up with a plan to get from where you are
now to where you want to
be yeah I think that's well put Eric I
think that's that's to a certain extent
I want to get into that exercise maybe
next time time and actually have people
put into words some of those some of
those big
Ideas yeah I agree with everything you
said Eric I'm just
thinking there are other towns of our
comparable size that probably have you
know we all have the same vision we want
to live in Utopia right um but maybe
they've they've gone on this journey
already and maybe there are things we
can learn from them that would help us
with our
plan why limit yourself to the
US well that's a fair point you know in
the the Netherland they build
communities uh that are basically self-
sustaining and you just ride your
bicycle you don't even need a
car so oh you're getting Eric excited
now I know Eric rides a bike so uh
but I mean yeah there are in Europe
there's a lot of communities that way
ahead in that regard well if you think
about trying to
address you know the cost of
living you know John just showed the
statistic that the average household
spends
$118,000 a year on their Automotive
transport I mean think about the cost
savings you know considering the median
income you know is right around
$100,000 that's saying 18% of your
income is just
Transportation how cool would it how
happy would a family be if they could
shift half of that and get down to
$99,000 you know yeah it's a great point
an extra extra 800 bucks a month
yep and you know it's that's a
multifaceted problem you know it's it's
public transportation senior
Transportation it's you know bicycling
and walking to destinations and and
designing the town so that's amenable to
that um but like when I go to Europe I
stay with a friend of mine in a town
called bad swishin hon which is about
two to three times the size of Andover
um it's more a Hein size but there are
bike paths everywhere there's a train
station in town with bike parking for a
couple of thousand
bicycles because it's a bedroom
community everybody takes train in where
their job is and they ride their bicycle
to the train station and lock it up and
take the train in to work you know it's
it's rethinking fundamentally how
you know what the community would be
like
um then dragging people there kicking
and screaming you
know John I do have one further question
I know the legislature was contemplating
uh adding a whole bunch more things to
the minimum requirements for the
PCD um has there has that how has that
played out in the general assembly do we
know yet um I think it was passed out of
committee so it's it's in the you know
in the hopper um for being brought up on
the floor I I definitely didn't get the
sense that there was it's a it's
anyone's major priority um and I've had
a couple of conversations with with
leadership and and um the planning and
development committee and you know it's
it's it's
nobody's uh massive like number one
priority going forward and it's possible
that you know you could take some of
that stuff like uh I think they were
looking at um using sea level rise or or
storm frequency numbers and and
incorporating that into in the pccd
essentially as like a hazard mitigation
thing that could very easily get cobbled
on to some other piece of legislation
that gets passed um but as a standalone
thing I I don't get the sense of a huge
priority but it's it's still a
lot so you look for that in the
Implement their bill and yeah you know
the last minute Implement Bill okay
thank
you although well yeah don't mean some
other piece of legislation this is not a
budget year so I don't think we we have
a budget implementor this year unless
they do do they do adjustments maybe
they do they do
yeah okay anything else for
John and if you want Jed I if people are
interested in the little presentation so
you can take a closer look I'd be happy
to share it out that'd be great yep yeah
I'll send it to you I think that would
be
helpful next item up under old business
is planning his Zone commission
appointment to the Capitol region
Council of government's Regional
Planning
Commission and uh I did attend a recent
meeting of that
um there were several alternates of
commissions that were members of that
group there were
several
uh chairs and vice chairs that were
members of that group so uh
I guess I will just make sure that I'm
not overlooking an eager person to uh go
uh participate in that and and bring us
back the information they're they're
also working on their plan of
conservation and and development now but
uh last time I asked no hins went up on
wanting to be the uh a member of that
esteemed group and there are some
advantages
you know to at least have people in
attendance at the meetings so that uh
you know when we're asking them for help
whether it's Financial knowledge or or
whatever you know they know who we are
and know we support them and come out uh
to to give us a little help there so I
will ask one more time if there's
somebody that would like to be either a
primary or an alternate to that group
they meet four times a year for uh you
know maybe an hour or so a
time okay so with that uh I
uh John I was wondering if we could make
you the primary and I would be the
alternate for
that I don't think I I I could be wrong
I don't think um staff can be primary I
think primary needs to be a Planning and
Zoning appointing
okay um I'm happy to you know I so in so
far as I'm I'll be participating I'm
happy to represent Andover as well okay
then uh then I guess
uh I will be the primary and we'll we'll
make you the alternate and
uh you will assist us as much as you can
sounds good thank
you next item up is the approval of the
minutes from the regular meeting on
March 19th 2024
any discussion on those uh
minutes any comments about
them and I had uh I had no comments on
that
so hearing none I make a motion to
approve the minutes from the regular
meeting on March 19th as
presented second thank you
Scott any other discussion that was
Steve yeah oh yep that's right and and I
I knew that was Steve's voice too I
don't know why Scott came out but that's
okay thank
you um call for a vote an
hi
Scott hi Steve hi
lean ran you're
muted I thank you I vote I as well the
minutes are approved by a vote of 500 Z
next item is Administrative reports
starting with the zoning agent
Jim
yes Fount activity in the in the
building office uh a lot of drainage
issues coming in which isn't
particularly zoning but nonetheless it
is is tends to be time consuming um I
did meet with representatives from the
Connecticut
meditations Society who own the property
at 131 Ruth
um they have been operating uh place of
worship there for for a few years on a
minimalist basis and they're and I had
contacted them to to come in for a site
plan review which is an allowed use in
that zone and I spent an hour and a half
with two folks from the organization and
went over the application process they
are proposing to put up a new building
um I I hope to have an application I
really don't think it will be until June
um but I'll follow up with with that um
I have not been in contact as yet with
the mountain of worship on shotty Mill
which is a some sort of
worship church that uh has been there
for a number of years and has kind
of been like been kind of slid under the
radar I think um I I int to contact them
I only wanted to take on one religious
organization at a
time I am getting a number of of blight
complaints there's a few on Route Six um
sent out letters and the way the BL
process works is I send out a notice
very often I send out a letter and
follow and just let people know um
informally and then I send out a notice
violation
but then there's a second notice that
has to go out which gives them the
opportunity to to appeal um so I'm in
the
process oh I sent out two notifications
recently for um on Route 6 properties
that had complaints come getting a
number a few other complaints coming in
I do have an
updated list um which I will do intend
to
post I don't believe it has been as as
of yet I am working on um a fee schedule
I thought I would have it ready for
tonight don't um it's comparing fees
around with about 10 different towns for
for everything from zoning permits to
subdivisions um it got a little more
complicated than I thought but but I
should have it ready
um by next
month that IDE did happen to notice a
new training availability through clear
um I don't have the exact information
but I I will try and post it tomorrow on
the website but I believe it's coming up
shortly um just for those of folks who
need the ongoing continu credits um it
might be something they're interested
in that's all I have the moment any
questions be happy to entertain
them when you said you had a lot of
drainage issues is that
be are we talking water draining from
one property to another yes pretty much
yeah and I mean the reason I mentioned
it is just it's been a timec consuming
thing people come into the office and
and they're looking for maps and they're
looking to for Solutions um and very
often I don't have them but I at least I
I
could sometimes provide them with with
some
information plot plans that we may have
u in some Direction
yeah could I jump in on
that yeah so I I mean I'm obviously not
your zoning officer but I serve as a
zoning officer in a number of
communities and I have to say in the
last six months we've received
more storm water
drainage complaints concerns questions
than I have in in the last 20 years of
doing zoning stuff um it's just it's
just incredibly wet and there's nowhere
for the water to go um and and so it's
just you know you can't we we would like
to issue a cease and assist on mother
nature but it it's um it it's just it's
just super wet and people are people are
struggling and
and people don't want to hear that it's
not their neighbor uh you know doing
something bad and draining onto their
property and we could we could crack
down on it but it's it's just a bad it's
it's a it's a bad
season yeah I uh I know I presented to
the commission you know my limited data
collection from last two years of the
size of the rain events and certainly
2024 has started out just crazy in
excess of what we've seen in the past as
far as every rain's a big rain and uh so
that
uh there's there's probably something
for our plan of conservation and
development with resilience that uh you
know needs to uh Encompass the fact that
we seem to be getting bigger rainfalls
lately
hopefully we won't be in the drought by
June but uh the rains so far have been
plentiful any other questions for Jim oh
Jim I know you sent me your little
Matrix of uh enforcement actions and and
where you stand on that did you send
that out to everybody or was that just
to me I did not I will I will take care
of that okay Y and you know I think that
really does show that there's a lot of
uh a lot of issues that are successfully
being adjudicated with without a awful
lot of fan fear that Jim's doing a lot
of stuff out there so uh it's is worth
it to take a look through that after Jim
sends that out to you
all
um any other questions for
Jim John you're
up if you got anything else for us
tonight I I have nothing for
okay and sorry that's not true I mean if
you want I we did I could report um
sorry uh you Jed and and uh Eric and I
did meet um a couple of weeks ago um
with actually was it last week um
with Fitch Ryan Fitch Ryan thank you um
who whose family owns the the Christmas
tree farms and is looking to um sell or
see seek development opportunities on
their their property uh the sort of the
most visible property they have on on
Route 6 and and so we sort of talked
through some options talk through zoning
implications and I think they will be um
uh probably coming back with a with a
development Concept in the you know in
the foreseeable future so it was a good
it was a productive meeting I thought
and certainly uh you know when they have
that uh concept flushed out a little bit
if they want to present that to the
commission that would be great and uh we
can give them whatever feedback that we
can before they spend a lot of money
finalizing
something be happy to add that to the
agenda at some
point Inland Wetlands a water course
commission uh again we had no meeting uh
earlier this month so uh nothing to
report on
that commission discussion
anybody got anything Jed I have a
question yep um we uh we had talked at
and had the the uh public meeting on the
the grants for The Pedestrian
walkway yes have those been submitted
now what's the status on that yeah John
or
Eric you
wanna so which particular one are you
interested in well both but I think
primarily the one along the road 316
there so um we haven't gotten a final
run back from uh the capitol region
Council of
governments um I have had some ongoing
conversations with Satoria who is the
lead transportation
person at kog on that grant
program um the long and the short of it
I think it's highly likely that we will
get that Grant um simply
because in very
strangely there were less dollars worth
of applications than they had funding
available so they basically said you
know unless there's a fundamental flaw
with the
application um they will the projects
submitted will get funded so you can
assume that one will get funded um
the
the the second Grant we submitted to uh
de to fund a alternative plan from the
town hall down town hall land that
connects to the trail um that one is
I would say probably unlikely to get
funded um Do's funding they all we have
an immense uh number of
applications compared to the funding
available and D actually makes their own
departments and
Parks uh you know VI for that same
funding tool by applying themselves for
projects so not only are you competing
against Departments of deep that need
money but you're competing against
everybody else who has a a w Trail
application and there are a ton of them
so long and the short of it is I don't
think I'm going to get that one
um you know related to Planning and
Zoning those are the two major ones I
just with John's help submitted a
legislative request through Senator
Murphy's office for the upcoming
legislative session or Congressional
session um for about
$400,000 to install a generator to run
the municipal complex um as well as
finish off the community center and my
thinking with that is if we can shift
not that we don't have money set aside
to complete the community center we do
as soon as we satisfy the requirements
and we don't have to pay prevailing wage
on the rest of the
modifications um but if I can fund it
Grant fund it through the federal
government I don't have to worry about
the time restriction because those are
prevailing wage jobs anyway um so you
know and if the the federal government's
willing to cough up 75% of the cost that
still makes it a lot cheaper for us and
gets it done um so that's in the
works um on my theme of liking bicycles
I also did put in a small uh micro Grant
through the do to fund uh the purchase
of three ebikes that would be available
from the community center so if people
wanted to check out and these ebikes are
geared towards Transportation not
necessarily Recreation so they'll be set
up as what a commuting bike would be
um so and I got the help Department to
kick in a little bit of money and we'll
put some if the board if we get the
first grant they all use some money from
another grant that I have to put in some
outside uh lockers for the bikes because
I know the board of selecton has some
concerns about charging ebikes given the
the
uh um some of the incidents of fires
that have occurred even though it's
pretty rare if you buy a decent quality
bike um so that's that's that I got a
couple other grants in the hopper one
for uh Emergency Management
Services um which I'm pretty sure I'll
get and another smaller one for funding
uh equipment for the senior center which
I also think I would get um because I
know what allocation they have for each
town so U that's it on the grant front
at least in the short
term thanks Eric keep your fingers
crossed
any other discussion
[Music]
items moving on to miscellaneous again
I'm not sure what the dis difference is
between miscellaneous and discussion but
I will remind everybody looking way out
there you know thank you all for getting
the land use training
done uh for the year 2023
that goes on a calendar year so the next
requirement will come due in
2025 and that will also be the year that
we got the I'm assuming the Connecticut
Bar Association will do their one
Saturday training session which uh is uh
good training and allow you to meet all
the training requirements that we have
so that's an easy way to uh to plan to
get that done if you can make it other
otherwise uh you know you have to get
these little lectures as uh as they come
available and and we'll keep trying to
point those out to
you any other miscellaneous
topics moving on to public comment
uh I don't think anybody from the public
is left left with us so uh move on next
next meeting May 21st that will be a
virtual
meeting and uh at this point I will make
a motion to
adjourn
second all in favor say I
I any opposed any abstain motion passes
500 thank you everybody for attending to